# The Call Stack and JavaScript Errors

## The Call Stack 
is the list of functions that are ran in the order that the compiler finds them. The list starts empty, populates functions as they will be called, and deletes functions after they are called. The list is empty again once all of the functions have been ran. There is only one list and each function is called from top to bottom, making it synchronous. 

>A **call stack** is a mechanism for an interpreter (like the JavaScript interpreter in a web browser) to keep track of its place in a script that calls multiple functions — what function is currently being run and what functions are called from within that function, etc.
>
>- When a script calls a function, the interpreter adds it to the call stack and then starts carrying out the function.
>- Any functions that are called by that function are added to the call stack further up, and run where their calls are reached.
>- When the current function is finished, the interpreter takes it off the stack and resumes execution where it left off in the last code listing.
If the stack takes up more space than it had assigned to it, it results in a "stack overflow" error.

\- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Call_stack)

**Stack overflow** errors are caused by infinite loops of a function calling itself. 

## JavaScript Errors
- **Reference errors** are thrown when a variable is either undeclared, or declared after it's referenced 
- **Syntax errors** are spelling, punctuation or formatting errors
- **Range errors** are caused by referencing lengths that do not exist
- **Type errors** are due to having incorrect or incompatible variable types

