# Exception Handling

## [Debugging for absolute beginners](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/debugger/debugging-absolute-beginners?view=vs-2019)

- Debugging is finding the root cause of a coding issue 
- Look at what you expected to happened and what actually happened
- Use the debugger to step through the code to find the origin of the issues 

## [Try/Catch Blocks](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/exceptions/how-to-use-the-try-catch-block-to-catch-exceptions)

- `try` and `catch` can be used to take a closer look at the exact exception being thrown when a block of code has errors
- Specific exceptions can be passed into `catch` and written to the console

## [Exception Handling](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/keywords/statement-keywords)

> Statements are program instructions. Except as described in the topics referenced in the following table, statements are executed in sequence. The following table lists the C# statement keywords. 
 *See table in link*

## [Therac-25](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Therac-25)
A standard case study in software engineering due to the bugs written in it's program that exposed patients with far too much radiation.
>
> The six documented accidents occurred when the high-current electron beam generated in X-ray mode was delivered directly to patients. Two software faults were to blame. One, when the operator incorrectly selected X-ray mode before quickly changing to electron mode, which allowed the electron beam to be set for X-ray mode without the X-ray target being in place. A second fault allowed the electron beam to activate during field-light mode, during which no beam scanner was active or target was in place.
>
>Previous models had hardware interlocks to prevent such faults, but the Therac-25 had removed them, depending instead on software checks for safety.
>
> The high-current electron beam struck the patients with approximately 100 times the intended dose of radiation, and over a narrower area, delivering a potentially lethal dose of beta radiation. The feeling was described by patient Ray Cox as "an intense electric shock", causing him to scream and run out of the treatment room. Several days later, radiation burns appeared, and the patients showed the symptoms of radiation poisoning; in three cases, the injured patients later died as a result of the overdose.

> Leveson notes that a lesson to be drawn from the incident is to not assume that reused software is safe: "A naive assumption is often made that reusing software or using commercial off-the-shelf software will increase safety because the software will have been exercised extensively. Reusing software modules does not guarantee safety in the new system to which they are transferred..."[3] This blind faith in poorly understood software coded paradigms is known as cargo cult programming. In response to incidents like those associated with Therac-25, the IEC 62304 standard was created, which introduces development life cycle standards for medical device software and specific guidance on using software of unknown pedigree.


## [Araine 5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ariane_5)
Another example of a disaster caused by assuming previously written software is acceptable to use without further testing in when used in a new environment. 

> Ariane 5's first test flight (Ariane 5 Flight 501) on 4 June 1996 failed, with the rocket self-destructing 37 seconds after launch because of a malfunction in the control software. A data conversion from 64-bit floating point value to 16-bit signed integer value to be stored in a variable representing horizontal bias caused a processor trap (operand error) because the floating point value was too large to be represented by a 16-bit signed integer. The software was originally written for the Ariane 4 where efficiency considerations (the computer running the software had an 80% maximum workload requirement) led to four variables being protected with a handler while three others, including the horizontal bias variable, were left unprotected because it was thought that they were "physically limited or that there was a large margin of safety". The software, written in Ada, was included in the Ariane 5 through the reuse of an entire Ariane 4 subsystem despite the fact that the particular software containing the bug, which was just a part of the subsystem, was not required by the Ariane 5 because it has a different preparation sequence than the Ariane 4.