# Linked Lists

## [What is a Linked List](https://codefellows.github.io/common_curriculum/data_structures_and_algorithms/Code_401/class-05/resources/singly_linked_list.html)

>A Linked List is a sequence of `Nodes` that are connected/linked to each other. The most defining feature of a Linked List is that each `Node` references the next `Node` in the link. 
>
>1. Linked List - A data structure that contains nodes that links/points to the next node in the list.
>2. Singly - Singly refers to the number of references the node has. A Singly linked list means that there is only one reference, and the reference points to the Next node in a linked list.
>3. Doubly - Doubly refers to there being two (double) references within the node. A Doubly linked list means that there is a reference to both the Next and Previous node.
>4. Node - Nodes are the individual items/links that live in a linked list. Each node contains the data for each link.
>5. Next - Each node contains a property called Next. This property contains the reference to the next node.
>6. Head - The Head is a reference type of type Node to the first node in a linked list.
>7. Current - The Current reference is a reference type of type Node that is currently being looked at. This node is traditionally used when traversing through a full linked list. When traversing, you typically reset the current to the head to guarantee you are starting from the beginning of the linked list.

We can use while loops to continuously check the Next property as we traverse through the list.

## What’s a Linked List, Anyway?: [Part 1](https://medium.com/basecs/whats-a-linked-list-anyway-part-1-d8b7e6508b9d) and [Part 2](https://medium.com/basecs/whats-a-linked-list-anyway-part-2-131d96f71996)

> A node only knows about what data it contains, and who its neighbor is.

Linked lists can have nodes connected to several other nodes, meaning the list is not linear and cannot be traversed sequentially. Another way to think about linked list types, is **singly** has nodes connected only to it's following node until the ending `null`, **doubly** has nodes connected to the following nodes and the previous nodes, and **circular** is similar to singly, but has a reference to the beginning of the list, instead of a null reference at the end of the list. 

Add a node to the *beginning* of a linked list:
1. Make a new node
2. Direct new node's pointer to current first node
3. Direct head node's pointer to new node -  *step two must be done before step three to avoid losing all data*

Add a node to the *end* of a linked list:
1. Find last node
2. Direct new node's pointer to ending `null`
3. Direct last node's pointer to new node
