# Interfaces

## Object Oriented Principles

### [Inheritance](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/classes-and-structs/inheritance)
>Inheritance, together with encapsulation and polymorphism, is one of the three primary characteristics of object-oriented programming. Inheritance enables you to create new classes that reuse, extend, and modify the behavior defined in other classes. The class whose members are inherited is called the base class, and the class that inherits those members is called the derived class. A derived class can have only one direct base class. However, inheritance is transitive. If ClassC is derived from ClassB, and ClassB is derived from ClassA, ClassC inherits the members declared in ClassB and ClassA.

>An interface is a reference type that defines a set of members. All classes and structs that implement that interface must implement that set of members. An interface may define a default implementation for any or all of these members. A class can implement multiple interfaces even though it can derive from only a single direct base class.

### [Abstract](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/classes-and-structs/abstract-and-sealed-classes-and-class-members)
>The abstract keyword enables you to create classes and class members that are incomplete and must be implemented in a derived class.
>
>The sealed keyword enables you to prevent the inheritance of a class or certain class members that were previously marked virtual.

### [Polymorphism](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/classes-and-structs/polymorphism)

>Polymorphism is often referred to as the third pillar of object-oriented programming, after encapsulation and inheritance. Polymorphism is a Greek word that means "many-shaped" and it has two distinct aspects:
>
> - At run time, objects of a derived class may be treated as objects of a base class in places such as method parameters and collections or arrays. When this polymorphism occurs, the object's declared type is no longer identical to its run-time type.
> - Base classes may define and implement virtual methods, and derived classes can override them, which means they provide their own definition and implementation. At run-time, when client code calls the method, the CLR looks up the run-time type of the object, and invokes that override of the virtual method. In your source code you can call a method on a base class, and cause a derived class's version of the method to be executed.


### [OOP Principles](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/concepts/object-oriented-programming)

> C# provides full support for object-oriented programming including abstraction, encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism.
>
> - **Abstraction** means hiding the unnecessary details from type consumers.
> - **Encapsulation** means that a group of related properties, methods, and other members are treated as a single unit or object.
> - **Inheritance** describes the ability to create new classes based on an existing class.
> - **Polymorphism** means that you can have multiple classes that can be used interchangeably, even though each class implements the same properties or methods in different ways.