# Unit Tests & Documentation

## [Unit Testing Best Practices](https://stackify.com/unit-testing-basics-best-practices/)
In C#, a unit test is a method that tests a part of a specific method in isolation. It can be added to a program by adding a new project and adding references to non-tester parts of the code, and be passed certain inputs and be set to throw an error if the expected output is not the result back from the method being tested. VSC has templates for unit tests projects. 

## [XUnit Documentation](http://xunit.github.io/#documentation)
**XUnit** is an open source testing framework for .NET languages.


## [Art of Readme](https://github.com/noffle/art-of-readme)
>A README is a module consumer's first -- and maybe only -- look into your creation. The consumer wants a module to fulfill their need, so you must explain exactly what need your module fills, and how effectively it does so.
>
>Your job is to
>
>1. tell them what it is (with context)
>2. show them what it looks like in action
>3. show them how they use it
>4. tell them any other relevant details

>Let's say, for example, my search for a 2D collision detection module leads me
to [`collide-2d-aabb-aabb`](https://github.com/noffle/collide-2d-aabb-aabb). I
begin to examine it from top to bottom:
>
>1. *Name* -- self-explanatory names are best. `collide-2d-aabb-aabb` sounds
   promising, though it assumes I know what an "aabb" is. If the name sounds too
   vague or unrelated, it may be a signal to move on.
>
>2. *One-liner* -- having a one-liner that describes the module is useful for
   getting an idea of what the module does in slightly greater detail.
   `collide-2d-aabb-aabb` says it
>
>   > Determines whether a moving axis-aligned bounding box (AABB) collides with
>   > other AABBs.
>
>   Awesome: it defines what an AABB is, and what the module does. Now to gauge how
   well it'd fit into my code:
>
> 3. *Usage* -- rather than starting to delve into the API docs, it'd be great to
   see what the module looks like in action. I can quickly determine whether the
   example JS fits the desired style and problem. People have lots of opinions
   on things like promises/callbacks and ES6. If it does fit the bill, then I
   can proceed to greater detail.
>
>4. *API* -- the name, description, and usage of this module all sound appealing
   to me. I'm very likely to use this module at this point. I just need to scan
   the API to make sure it does exactly what I need and that it will integrate
   easily into my codebase. The API section ought to detail the module's objects
   and functions, their signatures, return types, callbacks, and events in
   detail. Types should be included where they aren't obvious. Caveats should be
   made clear.
>
>5. *Installation* -- if I've read this far down, then I'm sold on trying out the
   module. If there are nonstandard installation notes, here's where they'd go,
   but even if it's just a regular `npm install`, I'd like to see that mentioned,
   too. New users start using Node all the time, so having a link to npmjs.org
   and an install command provides them the resources to figure out how Node
   modules work.
>
>6. *License* -- most modules put this at the very bottom, but this might
   actually be better to have higher up; you're likely to exclude a module VERY
   quickly if it has a license incompatible with your work. I generally stick to
   the MIT/BSD/X11/ISC flavours. If you have a non-permissive license, stick it
   at the very top of the module to prevent any confusion.

## [ReadMe Best Practices](https://github.com/jehna/readme-best-practices)
This repo includes a README.md file that can be used as template and updated with proper information. 

