# HTML Links, CSS Layout, JS Functions

## HTML Links
HTML links allow a user to click on a text and go to any page reference in the link, and are created using the `<a>` tag. Check out the example below:

```
<a href="https://www.w3schools.com/html/html_links.asp" target="_blank">W3 Schools - HTML Links<a>

```

This results in: <a href="https://www.w3schools.com/html/html_links.asp" target="_blank">W3 Schools - HTML Links</a>. *The `target` makes the link open in a new window. `mailto:address@email.com` creates a link to start the user's email program to start an email to the referenced address.*

Links can also reference internal files, whether they're in the same folder, or a different folder. The hierarchy of folders is as follows:

- Parent folder
    - Child folder

**or**

- Grandparent folder
    - Parent folder
        - Grand child folder

We can also link to a part of a page using an element id:

```
<h1 id="top">Top Page Title</h1>

<p><a href="#top">Click here to go to the top of the page</a></p>
```

## CSS Layout
We previously reviewed that CSS treats all HTML elements as their own box. Block-level elements start on a new line, and inline elements flow in between surrounding text.

### Text Positioning
- Static -  text flow fills the box with no specification on how it should flow
- `position: relative` - allows text to move around with specified positioning, such as with `top: 10px`
- `position: absolute` - breaks text out of normal flow 
- `position: fixed` - keeps the elements in the same place on the page, even when a user scrolls

### Element Positioning
- `z-index:` - changes the element's position on the z-axis; higher z values are closer to the front of the page 
- `float:` - moves elements as far **left** or **right** of the container as possible; can allow elements to be displayed side-by-side
- `clear:` - keeps other elements in the same container from touching each-other on specified sides; `left`, `right`, `both`, `none`. Can be used to create multiple columns of text on a page.

### Fixed Width and Liquid Layouts
- **Fixed width**: does not change the size of the page as window sizes are changed; takes up more vertical space than horizontal
- **Liquid**: stretches or compresses the page depending on the window size and text size

### Layout Grids
Grids show page elements as consistent widths. This grid is 960 pixels wide, and frame works are available at <a href="www.960.gs">960 Grid System</a>. Once a framework CSS file has been linked to the webpage, it can be set up using a grid that has a certain number of columns. The page needs to be within a container with a `class = "container_16"` for a 16 column wide grid. Then each element can be set to a certain number of columns wide using a `class = "grid_12"` to be 12 columns wide.

### Multiple Style Sheets
Multiple CSS documents can be used on a single webpage:
- `@import url("tables.css")` would be in a CSS document and imports a different style sheet
- `<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/tables.css" />` would be in an HTML file and links back to a CSS document

## JS Functions
Functions stack statements into one group. They can be called multiple times to re-use the function and re-do the tasks. 

```
function functionName(parameter1, parameter2){
    //code to run using parameters
    var answer = parameter1 * parameter2;
    return answer;
}

functionName();
```
*The function must be called to run, and can be called multiple times.*
