# Problem Domain, JS Object Literals; The DOM
## Problem Domain
The problem domain can be summarized in a problem statement. However, when solving problems with code, a person needs to understand the whole question before they can know exactly what code is needed. A good way to study the problem domain is to explore each use case possible. 

A relatable example to me is solving problems for factory workers. I was tasked to making sure they had all issues resolved so that they can do their job as easily and efficiently as possible. I always had to contemplate all information about what issue they were having to come up with a valid and valuable solution. Just because someone asks for their set of tools to be out of their workspace to give them more space to work, doesn't mean that it should be done. 

Instead, it might be a better solution to implement a new table or shadow board. That way, they have more room to work and they don't have to walk 5ft every time they need their tools. The problem domain, in this case, is that the worker doesn't want to be constrained with the space they need, and not increasing required walking to perform their job is part of the problem.

<hr>

## JS Object Literals

Objects have properties, such as values to describe or name something, and methods. Methods are functions inside of objects when coding in JavaScript. Object values can be:
- `string`
- `number`
- `Boolean`
- `array`

```
var hotel = new Object()

hotel.name = 'Park'
```
In this example, `hotel` is an object `name` is the property name, and `Park` is the property value. 

<hr>

## The DOM
Dom stands for "Document Object Model." It is the tree of stored memory for a website. 

- HTML
    - head
        - meta
        - title
        - link
    - body
        - header
            - h1
            - nav
        - main
            - h2
            - img
            - ul
                - li
                - li
                - li
            - p
        - footer
            - address
            - p

Each point in this tree is called a *node*.
- **Element node**: the structure of an HTML page; `h1`, `body`, `ul`, etc. 
- **Attribute node**: not children; `class = ''`, `id = ''`, `class = ''`
- **Text node**: contain the text of the page, cannot have children; `p`, `li`, `address`, etc.

We can target each node with different methods in CSS, previously covered in this learning journal. Similarly, each node can be accessed in JS. We can *update* the text of a node, and *add* or *remove* nodes. We can target elements using `.getElementById()` or `.getAttribute()`.

**XSS**, cross-site scripting, is an attack where someone uses scripts to abuse the content of a website. An attacker can insert scripts using **untrusted data**, which is anything a website owner does not have total control over, or by finding data in the DOM. We should use `textContent` or `innerText` instead of `innerHTML` to reduce risks from XSS. 